---
layout: post
title: Day 0
categories: moocs feelthelearn-product-manager
---

## Introduction

* Product manager - business owner of a product.
* Guides the team, sets the priorities, roadmap.
* Monitors the health of the product.
* Communicate the vision to the team so that everyone is aligned.
* Determine what needs to be built.
* Hub between 3 constituents:
  * Customers - understand customer needs, what solves their problems.
  * Developers and engineers.
  * Business - strategic direction of company, revenue targets.
* Previously, PMs built market requirements document - giant tome of information, but nobody ever reads it (waterfall model).
* In agile model - PM is the product owner. Multiple responsibilities.
* Team should know what to build next.
* Digestible chunks. Prioritize.
* Talk with business and marketing to manage priorities and customer needs.

## Skills

* Interdisciplinary skills required.
* Lot of obvious ones - focus on customer, technical thinking, business strategy.
* What you are always learning - appreciation on what it means to lead, lot of responsibility and little authority.
* Invoking authority is futile. Teaches a lot about being a successful leader - irrespective of     background. Leader in a team sport.
* Responsibility for the outcome. How the product comes together to market is the PM's     responsibility.
* How to consistently end up in a place where you are winning games. For the team. For the product. Need a holistic approach.
* Needs fantastic interpersonal skills. Personalities of engineers all over the board. Sell the product to even engineers.
* If you can't convince the developers, can't convince the market.
* Vision of a great product is necessary.
* Able to inspire others is crucial. And is also hard.
* Mini CEO of the product. Have to be worried about everything - market analysis, usability, customer support, etc.
* Get the people excited, press excited.
* Mini CEO without authority. Most of the time, engineers don't even directly report to you.
* Use and test the products a lot.
* Tenacity. Follow through with things. Be persistent.
* Collaborate and work together.

## Working as a PM

* Highly leveraged job.
* Great results from small changes.
* Talked with engineers and designers to see how conversion rate can be improved.
